## In Lieu Of i18n...

### tl;dr

To let people use Chrome's translation feature, we must avoid using bare strings in our JSX.

So instead of this:

```jsx
const Hero = ({ name }) => <div>{name} is a hero</div>;
```

...either wrap your bare strings in a `<span>`:

```jsx
const Hero = ({ name }) => <div>{name}<span> is a hero</span></div>;
```

...or for complex text rendering, use a template string:

```jsx
const Hero = ({ name }) => <div>{`${name} is a hero`}</div>;
```

Note: this is is a gross over simplification :)

### Goal: Support our international customers by enabling them to translate our app

**Issue: Our app does not natively support multiple locales or languages**

However, we shouldn't needlessly inhibit non-English speakers either. Chrome supports page content translation and people are already using it with our app.

**Issue: React does not play well with Chrome's page translation feature**

When React renders a page, it updates the DOM to match its the content rendered by its component tree. React works hard to make minimal changes to the DOM, by keeping track of DOM nodes and only inserting and removing only differing nodes to from cycle to cycle. To do this it keeps track of DOM nodes to make later renders faster.

When Chrome translates a page, it replaces all text nodes in the DOM with `<font>` tags containing translated text. These changes break React's view of the DOM so when it next renders something, it throws exceptions as it attempts to update content around DOM nodes that have been replaced by Chrome.

### An Example: The `removeChild` Problem

For instance, if we use the `Hero` component from above like this:

```jsx
render() {
  const heroName = this.props.dc ? 'Bats' : 'Cap';
  return <Hero name={heroName} />;
}
```

That might eventually render to this DOM structure in the browser:

```
Element: div
   |
   +-Text: 'Batman'
   |
   +-Text: ' is a hero'
```

Then Chrome translates that to this, removing the old text nodes as it goes:

```
Element: div
   |
   +-Element: font
   |    |
   |    +-Text: 'Batman'
   |
   +-Element: font
        |
        +-Text: ' est un héros'
```

So far so good. If we now flip `this.props.dc`, React tries to re-render by _updating_ the DOM based on it's now out-of-date view of the DOM.

It'll try to remove the `Batman` text node which no longer attached to the DOM, and blow up.

### A Wrinkle: Lone Text Nodes

Interestingly, this issue only occurs if React has to update a translated text node _which has other siblings. React has no trouble updating lone text nodes like this `<div>This does not count</div>` after translation, presumably because it swaps out the `div` rather than the text inside.

### A Further Wrinkle: 2+ Sibling Text Nodes

React can use DOM text node as anchors to update other nodes, calling`node.insertBefore()` to make its update. If the text node in question has been removed from the DOM, this fails.

### Workarounds

https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/11538

Option 1: avoid bare strings
Option 2: Use `class="notranslate"` in extreme cases

### Testing

You can use Chrome Translate to translate a page into English and then exercise your app, which will trigger this issue.
